This is tcsh version tcsh 6.00.  Tcsh is a version of the Berkeley
C-Shell, with the addition of: a command line editor, command and file
name completion, listing, etc. and a bunch of small additions to the
shell itself.

Tcsh runs on BSD 4.2 and 4.3 Unix, Mach, Sun Unix (tested on 3.0, 3.2,
3.4, 4.0, 4.1), Pyramid OS/X (in the bsd universe), Encore UMAX 4.2, 
Apple A/UX 2.0, AT&T 3b machines under SysV.2 and V.3, HP/UX
6.2 on series 300 and 800 machines and all HP machines under HP/UX
6.5 and 7.0, and will probably work with a bit of tinkering on anything 
else either BSD or SysV-ish.  Note that the above list is incomplete,
and the place to look is the config directory to find a configuration 
file appropriate for your machine. 

Feel free to use it.  These changes to csh may only be included in a
commercial product if the inclusion or exclusion does not change the
purchase price, level of support, etc.  Please respect the individual
authors by giving credit where credit is due (in other words, don't
claim that you wrote portions that you haven't, and don't delete the
names of the authors from the source code or documentation).  

To install tcsh:

1)  Look at the Makefile and make sure that you are using the right
    compilation flags.

    NOTES:
	On a vax using the good ol' BSD compiler 'typedef void sigret_t;' 
	fails in sh.os.h replace with '#define sigret_t void'. No I will not 
	change sh.sig.h. (Both ultrix and 4.3BSD)
 
2)  Copy the appropriate for your machine and OS config file from the
    config subdirectory into config.h. If you are trying to compile
    tcsh on a machine for which there is no config file yet, you will
    need to create a config file using as a template one of the
    supplied ones.  If you get tcsh working on a new machine, I'd
    appreciate a copy of the config file plus additional information
    about the architecture/OS.  If you are creating a new config file,
    look very hard at BSDJOBS, BSDSIGS, and BSDTIMES if you are running
    a non-BSD machine.  For vanila SysV, these would all be #undef-ed,
    but others may vary (such as A/UX or HPUX).  On a pyramid, compile
    in the UCB universe even if you are running under the ATT universe
    usually; it will work anyway, and you get job control for free.


3)  Look at config_f.h, and enable or disable any features you want.
    It is configured the way I like it, but you may disagree.
    If you do not have NLS, then locale.h will not be found. Undefine it
    and things should work ok. On the other hand, if you have NLS you
    might as well use it...

4)  Look at tc.vers.c to make sure that you have the right #ifdefs to set
    the environment variable "HOSTTYPE" correctly.  If you need to make
    changes, PLEASE SEND THEM BACK TO ME.

5)  You may want to adjust the DESTDIR and DESTMAN entries in the
    Makefile.  These are the directories that tcsh, and the tcsh.1 man
    entry will be placed in when you do a "make install".  If you decide
    to install tcsh somewhere other than in /usr/local/bin/tcsh, you should
    #define _PATH_TCSHELL "/your/installation/directory/tcsh" in pathnames.h.

6)  make

7)  Read the documentation while you are waiting.  The file tcsh.man
    is in standard [nt]roff -man format.

8)  Test tcsh to see that it has compiled correctly.  The history
    command should give a time stamp on every entry.  Typing normal
    characters should echo each exactly once.  Control-A should put the
    cursor at the beginning of the input line, but after the prompt.
    Typing characters after that should insert them into the line.
    If you have job control make sure that stopping and restarting
    jobs works. Make sure you can ^C in the middle of the input line.
    Also make sure that pipelines work correctly and there
    are no races. Try 'echo | cat | cat | cat | cat | more' a couple
    of times. Also make sure that the ioctl() modes are preserved.
    Get into vi, enter and exit input mode and suspend it, background
    it and foreground it again. After all that, lastly make sure that
    the tty process group manipulation is happening correctly. Try
    ftp to some host. If your passwd appears on the screen, you have
    lost /dev/tty. Otherwise everything is fine. 

9)  Enjoy.

10) PLEASE send any bug reports (and fixes), code for new features,
    comments, questions, etc. (even flames) to:

	     -- Christos Zoulas
		christos@ee.cornell.edu

	SNail:  389 Engineering/Theory Center
		Cornell University,
		Ithaca, NY 14853.
	Phone:	(607) 255-0302
	Fax:	(607) 255-9072


Various:

On sysv versions < 3.0 (not hpux) the public domain directory 
manipulation library has to be installed.
If the network is not installed, then there is a gethostname()
routine is tc.os.c.
